## Prerequisites

Install all the required tools

- jq (use Homebrew)
- Git
- [pre-commit](https://pre-commit.com)
- [Make](https://formulae.brew.sh/formula/make)
- [AWS CLI](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/getting-started-install.html)
- [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/)
- Docker
- [Java version 8+](https://mkyong.com/java/how-to-install-java-on-mac-osx/) (for Batect, future releases will remove this dependency)
- Python (v3.10) - Only for local development without Docker (ideally manage
  via [pyenv](https://github.com/pyenv/pyenv))

Install the pre-commit hooks.

1. In the project root run `make precommit`. This will install all the relevant pre-commit hooks across the entire codebase.

## Running the API

`Make` tasks that require the environment to be defined and set-up, will ensure that the latest image has been built and is used for running the task.

If you would like to manually recreate the api environment (e.g.: after speciying a new dependency etc.) you can run `make api-create-image`. This will also output the name of the created Docker image for your convenience.

To create a local virtual environment and install dependencies run `make api-create-local-venv`. This is only used for local development and serves as a workaround in case your IDE cannot use a remote Docker python interpreter.

To run the API locally, you will need to set the following environment variables:

```
AWS_ACCOUNT=
AWS_REGION=
COGNITO_USER_POOL_ID=
DATA_BUCKET=
DOMAIN_NAME=
RESOURCE_PREFIX=
ALLOWED_EMAIL_DOMAINS=
```

Then run the following command from within the root project directory:

`make api-run` runs Batect to bring up a locally running version of the api within a Docker container using the base image.

`make api-run-dev` runs Batect to bring up a locally running version of the api within a Docker container using a "hot-reload" mode so you can keep this running during development.

> It is important to note that the app communicates with AWS services and needs to assume the relevant role to do so, however the Docker container **will not have this role**. To run the app locally with an admin context you can assume the admin or user role.

## Running the UI

You can run the UI locally for development either against an already running rAPId instance that has been deployed or a locally running instance of rAPId.

1. Install `npm`, we recommend using [nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm)
2. Install the all the required packages `make ui-setup`

To connect the UI with your rAPId instance you will need to set the following environment variables:

```
NEXT_PUBLIC_API_URL=
NEXT_PUBLIC_API_URL_PROXY=
```

We provide a proxy system within the UI that allows for API requests to made to the rAPId server without them getting blocked CORS issues. If this setup is required you can set the `NEXT_PUBLIC_API_URL` to some value such as `/myapi` and then your rAPId url within the `NEXT_PUBLIC_API_URL_PROXY` such as `https://myrapid.link`.

`make ui-run-dev` will launch the UI in development mode with hot reloading.

### RAT Token

The UI uses a RAT (rAPId Access Token) token to authenticate with the API. This is a Cognito token that is generated by the UI and passed to the API in the `Authorization` header. The API then validates the token and extracts the user information from it.

To get passed the login screen when running the local UI, you need to login to your deployed version of rAPId and within the cookies tab of your browsers dev tools, copy the value of the `rat` cookie. Navigate back to your locally running version of the UI and create a new `rat` cookie with the value you copied.

## Assuming Admin / User Role

As the application connects to AWS services you will need to provide the application with AWS credentials. We recommend using [aws-vault](https://github.com/99designs/aws-vault) to store your AWS credentials. Further instructions to setup aws-vault can be found in the [contributing section](/contributing/#aws-vault-set-up).

1. Assume the relevant role through aws-vault, `aws-vault exec <role>`
2. `printenv` to get the environment variables
3. Add the following environment variables to the root `.env` file of rAPId

```
AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=
AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=
AWS_SESSION_TOKEN=
```

## Testing

Every rAPId module other than the infrastructure has complementary tests.

### API

To run the API tests locally, you will need to set the following environment variables:

```
DATA_BUCKET=the-bucket
AWS_ACCOUNT=123456
AWS_REGION=eu-west-2
RESOURCE_PREFIX=rapid
DOMAIN_NAME=example.com
COGNITO_USER_POOL_ID=11111111
ALLOWED_EMAIL_DOMAINS=example1.com,example2.com
LAYERS=raw,layer
```

Then run the following command from within the root project directory:

`make api-test`

### UI

To test the UI run the following command from within the root project directory:

`make ui-test`

### SDK

To test the SDK run the following command from within the root project directory:

`make sdk-test`

## Security

### Vulnerabilities

To scan for security vulnerabilities run `make security-check`

We use [bandit](https://pypi.org/project/bandit/) to check for common python vulnerabilities

#### Scanned image vulnerabilities

During deployment, once the image has been pushed to ECR, we automatically scan it for vulnerabilities. The pipeline has
a stage after upload to check the results of the scan and fail if some are found (currently only with high and critical
severity).

AWS also automatically scans the images every day to check for any new vulnerabilities. We have a scheduled pipeline
that checks the results of this scan and fails if the image becomes insecure.

Once you have reviewed the vulnerability, and you deem it acceptable, you can ignore it by adding the `CVE` to a new
line in the `vulnerability-ignore-list.txt` file. Ensure you commit with a meaningful error message, the URL and your
reasoning for ignoring it. By doing this the pipeline will accept that vulnerability and _not_ fail the build.

#### Secrets

We are using the python package [detect-secrets](https://github.com/Yelp/detect-secrets) to analyse all files tracked by
git for anything that looks like a secret that might be at risk of being committed.

There is a `.secrets.baseline` file that defines any secrets (and their location) that were found in the repo, which are
not deemed a risk and ignored (e.g.: false positives)

To check the repo for secrets during development run `make detect-secrets`. This compares any detected secrets with the
baseline files and throws an error if a new one is found.

> Firstly, REMOVE ANY SECRETS!

However, if the scan incorrectly detects a secret, run: `make ignore-secrets` to update the baseline file. **This file
should be added and committed**.

The secret detection step is run as part of the `make precommit` target.

## Releasing

The product of rAPId is a set of three different packages:

1. A service image that departments can pull and run from within their own infrastructure.
2. A zip package containing the built UI that can interact with the rAPId image and hosted on your infrastructures CDN.
3. A public pypi package of the built rAPId-sdk that provides an easy and pythonic way to interact with the hosted rAPId image.

Performing a release involves tagging the repository with a new version number so that the api image, ui and sdk packages get published.

### Prerequisites

- Download the GitHub CLI with `brew install gh`
- Then run `gh auth login` and follow the steps

### Steps

1. Decide on the new version number following the [semantic versioning approach](https://semver.org/)
2. Update and commit the Changelog (you can follow
   the [template](https://github.com/no10ds/rapid/blob/main/changelog_release_template/md))
3. Run `make release commit=<commit_hash> version=vX.X.X`

> Ensure the version number follows the format `vX.X.X` with full-stops in the same places

Now the reelase pipeline will run automatically, build all images and packages off that version of the code and tag it within GitHub.
